# JTAG FROM A HACKERS PERSPECTIVE
- Jtag (joint test action group) is an industry standard that verifies designs and tests printed circuit boards after manufacture, which is used to amplify the testing of PCB after manufacture and it allows controllability and observability of each bit of internal memory of each integrated circuit.
- JTAG is used as the primary means of accessing sub-blocks of integrated circuits, making it an essential mechanism for debugging embedded systems that might not have any other debug-capable communications channel
- JTAG interface can be used as a backdoor entry to access and exploit devices, also defined as a physical attack. This attack can be used to make products malfunction, modify data, or, in the worst case, stop working.
- When it comes to hardware security, an unsecured JTAG interface can present significant cybersecurity risk. It may allow attackers to extract firmware, read and write memory, change the program counter, and ultimately have complete control over the device.
## ATTACKERS' GOALS
- One possible goal is to cause a denial of service. Another is to clone a system.
 1. sniff the TDI/TDO signals
 2. modify the TDI/TDO signals
 3. control the TMS and TCK signals
 4. access the keys used by testers.
- If the attacker gives proper inputs to the target program in the device, then the attacker can inject malicious code into the firmware causing unintentional behavior of the device or stealing sensitive data. Generally, server exploitation considers getting shell (root) access, whereas microcontroller firmware access could be more devastating since the attacker can change the device behavior, steal protection keys, and more. It can go unnoticed by the owner of the device so that attacker can continue stealing data and can keep a watch on the device.
# POSSIBILITY OF ATTACKS
- Exploit an unlocked JTAG port to identify the pinout and connect to it. One method to figure out the pinout is to trace the header to the chip on the PCB. By identifying the chip architecture, one can often map that to one of the ‘standard’ pinouts
- Measure the voltages and resistances of the pins, identify GND, VCC, and the pull-up or pull-down resistors in use, and then compare that to known JTAG port configurations.
## SNIFFING
- The TDI pin is used to inject test signals or secret data into an “n” number of devices, which are connected in series such as memories, sequential or combinational circuits, etc. If the tester or user is injecting some secret data into the TDI pin, then that data can be sniffed by a device such as memory, controller, etc. that is already present in that series of devices. This is called a “sniffing attack”. the attacker might have access to sniff the bits on the JTAG bus, but if those bits are encrypted, sniffing attacks won't work.
- These attacks are most likely possible in IoT nodes since these nodes may contain memory to store sensor data or encrypted global unique sensor ID (i.e., unique device ID). Three methods are used , namely hash function, message authentication code (MAC), and stream cipher, in the proposed defense against JTAG attacks Once the hacker gets to know the pinout from the PCB board through manual inspection, then the attacker can easily get access to the firmware or bootloader.JTAGulator board assists all users in identifying OCD (On-Chip Debug) interfaces from test points or components pads which are available on PCB boards Based on pin information given by the JTAgulator device the attackers can use the J-Link debugger tool from “segger” to get access through JTAG interface. This method could be the starting point for any illegitimate user to get JTAG access into the IoT node with open-source registered toolsets.
